The hyperparameters of the model are optimally adjusted by the use of IKHO algorithm. KH (Wei and Wang, 2020) is a SI based approach which is based on the swarming behavior of krills based on a particular environmental and biological process. The KH algorithm contains 3 main processes namely movement influenced by other krills, foraging action, and arbitrary diffusion. The KH algorithm modifies the Lagrangian approach in a d- dimension decision space using Eq. (1): dXi dt = Ni + Fi + Di (1) Where Ni, Fi, and Di denotes the motion supported by other krills, physical diffusion, and the forage motion. In case, the movement gets affected using other kills, the way of movement, α?, is determined using local, and target outcomes. For any krill individuals, the movement can be defined using Eq. (2): i = Nmaxαi + ωnNold Nnew (2) i and Nmax means higher induce speed, ωn specifies inertia weight of the old characterizes last motion encour- motion induced in 0 and 1, and Ni aged. The forage motion is determined using two main components. Primarily, it defines the place of the food source, and then it indicates the earlier knowledge about the place of the food. For ith krill individual, the motion is defined by: F? = Vf βi + ωf Fold Fig. 4. Flowchart of KH algorithm. (3) i where walks. The animal could choose, for starting the exploration walk, some locations are marked with pheromone that fits its sense. Thus, the likelihood of accessing some locations of the search space is null. In the exploration, all krills attains few favors (an objective function solution) and distribute a pheromone in quantity that is related to the quantity of founded favors (the quality of the solution). The pheromone is completely substituted by a novel one afterward every walks. βi = βfood i + βbest (4) i Here, Vf means forage speed, ωf signifies inertia weight of forage old designates last foraging motion. The motion amongst 0 to 1, and Fi arbitrary diffusion of krills can be considered as an arbitrary function. It can be represented based on maximum diffusion speed and randomized direction vector, equated in Eq. (5): VAE model includes a series of operations such as pre-processing, Effi- cientNet based feature extraction, IKHO based parameter optimization, and VAE based classification. Besides, the IKHO algorithm is designed by the integration of KH algorithm with FS operator to avoid the local optimal problem of the KH algorithm. In addition, the PTDLEN based feature extractor by the use of parameter tuned EfficientNet model using IKHO algorithm helps to enhance the prediction outcome of the PTDLEN-VAE model for unseen data. For validating the improved per- formance of the PTDLEN-VAE method, an extensive experimental analysis take place on benchmark aerial image dataset. The resultant experimental values highlighted the supremacy of the proposed PTDLEN-VAE model over the other techniques. In future, the presented PTDLEN-VAE model can be deployed in unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and lightweight cryptographic algorithms can be designed to accomplish secure UAV communication for satellite imagery analysis. 