The purpose of the deep learning model is for classification. It is used to classify migrating birds' flight calls into different species. %Context 1. INTRODUCTION Automatic classification of animal vocalizations has great potential to enhance the monitoring of species movements and behaviors. This is particularly true for monitoring nocturnal bird migration, where automated classification of migrants' flight calls could yield new biological insights and conservation applications for birds that vocalize during migration. Among an increasingly important array of bioacoustic tools for conservation science [1] that describe presence, abundance, and behavior of vocal species, there is a significant body of research on automatic species classification from audio (e. g. [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]). See [10] for a detailed survey of automatic birdsong recognition. Recently, a number of approaches have been proposed that employ generalizable machine learning techniques that can be easily adapted to multiple species [7, 11, 12]. However, these studies were focused on bird song (and marine mammals), not flight calls. Flight calls are species- specific vocalizations produced primarily during periods of sustained flight (i. e. , nocturnal migration). Among other differences from vocalizations analyzed in the aforementioned studies, flight calls are primarily single note vocalizations that are less than 200 ms long, whereas most songs contain several types of notes and may vary from seconds to minutes in duration. Studies focusing specifically on automated flight call classification include [13,14,15,16]. Automated classification of organisms to species based on their vocalizations would contribute tremendously to abilities to monitor biodiversity, with a wide range of applications in the field of ecology. In particular, automated classification of migrating birds' flight calls could yield new biological insights and conservation applications for birds that vocalize during migration. In this paper, we explore state-of-the-art classification techniques for large-vocabulary bird species classification from flight calls. In particular, we contrast a "shallow learning" approach based on unsupervised dictionary learning with a deep convolutional neural network combined with data augmentation. We show that the two models perform comparably on a dataset of 5428 flight calls spanning 43 different species, with both significantly outperforming an MFCC baseline. Finally, we show that by combining the models using a simple late-fusion approach, we can further improve the results, obtaining a state-of-the-art classification accuracy of 0. 96. %Query 