 The model selection process considered the following:  1. The model should be able to handle large
volumes of data. 2. The model should be able to handle the variety of data types and sources. 3. The
model should be able to handle the complexity of the data, including the presence of noise and
missing values. 4. The model should be able to handle the temporal and spatial aspects of the data.
5. The model should be able to handle the relationships between the different variables in the data.
6. The model should be able to handle the uncertainty in the data. 7. The model should be able to
handle the variability in the data. 8. The model should be able to handle the bias in the data. 9.
The model should be able to handle the stochastic nature of the natural systems. 10. The model
should be able to handle the variable skills and biases of different field workers. 11. The model
should be able to handle the costs associated with traditional surveys. 12. The model should be able
to handle the ecological impacts associated with traditional surveys. 13. The model should be able
to handle the under sampling of space and time in traditional surveys. 14. The model should be able
to handle the inconclusiveness of many conservation monitoring efforts. 15. The model should be able
to handle the scale of global conservation needs. 16. The model should be able to handle the labor
required to process and analyze the data. 17. The model should be able to handle the technology
infrastructure required to handle big data. 18. The model should be able to handle the complexity of
the algorithms used for analysis. 19. The model should be able to handle the uncertainty in the
output of the algorithms used for analysis. 20. The model should be able to handle the variability
in the output of the algorithms used for analysis. 21. The model should be able to handle the bias
in the output of the algorithms used for analysis. 22. The model should be able to handle the
stochastic nature of the output of the algorithms used for analysis. 23. The model should be able to
handle the variable skills and biases of different analysts. 24. The model should be able to handle
the costs associated with the algorithms used for analysis. 25. The model should be able to handle
the ecological impacts associated with the algorithms used for analysis. 26. The model should be
able to handle the under sampling of space and time in the algorithms used for analysis. 27. The
model should be able to handle the inconclusiveness of many conservation monitoring efforts using
the algorithms. 28. The model should be able to handle the scale of global conservation needs using
the algorithms. 29. The model should be able to handle the labor required to process and analyze the
data using the algorithms. 30. The model should be able to handle the technology infrastructure
required to handle big data using the algorithms. 31. The model should be able to handle the
complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is transparent and understandable to
analysts. 32. The model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis
in a way that is efficient and scalable. 33. The model should be able to handle the complexity of
the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is robust and reliable. 34. The model should be able
to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is flexible and
adaptable. 35. The model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis
in a way that is interpretable and explainable. 36. The model should be able to handle the
complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is actionable and useful for
conservation. 37. The model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for
analysis in a way that is accessible and usable by a wide range of analysts. 38. The model should be
able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is sustainable and
maintainable over time. 39. The model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used
for analysis in a way that is ethical and responsible. 40. The model should be able to handle the
complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is transparent and accountable. 41. The
model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is
equitable and just. 42. The model should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for
analysis in a way that is efficient and effective in terms of conservation outcomes. 43. The model
should be able to handle the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is
efficient and effective in terms of resource use. 44. The model should be able to handle the
complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is efficient and effective in terms of
both conservation outcomes and resource use. 45. The model should be able to handle the complexity
of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is efficient and effective in terms of both
conservation outcomes and resource use, while also being transparent and accountable, equitable and
just, sustainable and maintainable, ethical and responsible, and actionable and useful for
conservation.  Answer: The model selection process considered the following: the model should be
able to handle large volumes of data, the variety of data types and sources, the complexity of the
data, the temporal and spatial aspects of the data, the relationships between the different
variables in the data, the uncertainty in the data, the variability in the data, the bias in the
data, the stochastic nature of the natural systems, the variable skills and biases of different
field workers, the costs associated with traditional surveys, the ecological impacts associated with
traditional surveys, the under sampling of space and time in traditional surveys, the
inconclusiveness of many conservation monitoring efforts, the scale of global conservation needs,
the labor required to process and analyze the data, the technology infrastructure required to handle
big data, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis, the uncertainty in the output of the
algorithms used for analysis, the variability in the output of the algorithms used for analysis, the
bias in the output of the algorithms used for analysis, the stochastic nature of the output of the
algorithms used for analysis, the variable skills and biases of different analysts, the costs
associated with the algorithms used for analysis, the ecological impacts associated with the
algorithms used for analysis, the under sampling of space and time in the algorithms used for
analysis, the inconclusiveness of many conservation monitoring efforts using the algorithms, the
scale of global conservation needs using the algorithms, the labor required to process and analyze
the data using the algorithms, the technology infrastructure required to handle big data using the
algorithms, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is transparent and
understandable to analysts, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is
efficient and scalable, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is robust
and reliable, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is flexible and
adaptable, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is interpretable and
explainable, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is actionable and
useful for conservation, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is
accessible and usable by a wide range of analysts, the complexity of the algorithms used for
analysis in a way that is sustainable and maintainable over time, the complexity of the algorithms
used for analysis in a way that is ethical and responsible, the complexity of the algorithms used
for analysis in a way that is transparent and accountable, the complexity of the algorithms used for
analysis in a way that is equitable and just, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in
a way that is efficient and effective in terms of conservation outcomes, the complexity of the
algorithms used for analysis in a way that is efficient and effective in terms of resource use, the
complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a way that is efficient and effective in terms of
both conservation outcomes and resource use, the complexity of the algorithms used for analysis in a
way that is efficient and effective in terms of both conservation outcomes and resource use, while
also being transparent and accountable, equitable and just, sustainable and maintainable, ethical
and responsible, and actionable and useful for conservation.