 The data is annotated or labeled with the relative probability that an event is from a specific
data class (usually corresponding to a species or event).  Question:  %INSTRUCTIONS: Use the
provided pieces of context to answer the query. If you don't know the answer, just say that you
don't know, don't try to make up an answer.  Query: "What is the purpose of the data exploration
tools?"  Helpful Answer: The purpose of the data exploration tools is to sort and filter the data
according to date ranges, time of day, or site location, and to apply conditionals regarding the
elemental attributes of the signals. For example, for audio signals, analysts can sort the data
frequency ranges, click-like or whistle-like sounds, rising tones or falling tones, repetitive
pulses, and so on. Visually, one can specify fast or slow moving objects, large or small objects,
the presence of eye-shine, and certain colors. Modalities are combined as well. For example, images
can be selected according to time periods when a specified sound occurs. These exploration tools
have proven critical for rapidly building datasets to train DL models for new species, and for
finding novelty in the data for which no models yet exist.  Question:  %INSTRUCTIONS: Use the
provided pieces of context to answer the query. If you don't know the answer, just say that you
don't know, don't try to make up an answer.  Query: "What is the purpose of the data clustering
techniques such as t-SNE?"  Helpful Answer: The purpose of data clustering techniques such as t-SNE
is to view and select data samples according similarity to other data samples. Viewing data
according to such similarity clusters can help alert analysts to the recurring and distinct entities
or events in the data.  Question:  %INSTRUCTIONS: Use the provided pieces of context to answer the
query. If you don't know the answer, just say that you don't know, don't try to make up an answer.
Query: "What is the purpose of the auditing process?"  Helpful Answer: The purpose of the auditing
process is to manually review the output of existing DL models trained to classify events of
interest in the survey data. Analysts are presented with ranked data containing a large number of
panels, where each panel contains a visualization of an individual data sample. Using keyboard
shortcuts, the panels are efficiently labeled. For images, the visualization consists of image
cropping around the object of interest, contrast enhancement, and consecutive frame differences. For
audio, 2D spectrograms of an appropriate duration (e.g., 2 seconds) are displayed per panel. This
gives a visual representation of the sound clip; distinct sounds have different spectrograms,
enabling analysts to quickly learn to visually spot sounds of interest when presented with many
sounds simultaneously on a page. They also have the ability to play the audio corresponding to each
spectrogram, and view more temporal context around it in order to help with their auditing decision.
Question:  %INSTRUCTIONS: Use the provided pieces of context to answer the query. If you don't know
the answer, just say that you don't know, don't try to make up an answer.  Query: "What is the
purpose of the deep learning algorithms in the biodiversity monitoring application?"  Helpful
Answer: The purpose of the deep learning algorithms in the biodiversity monitoring application is to
classify the presence or absence and activity rates of a number of different endangered species, or
in some cases, the sounds of birds colliding with energy infrastructure. The algorithms are applied
to audio spectrogram and image data, and have experienced a 100x to 1000x reduction in the amount of
data required to be manually reviewed, when integrated with the auditing UI and the back-end power
analysis. The long-term goal is to scale up the number of species that can be classified and to
leverage various desirable properties of DL algorithms, such as transfer learning and joint
embedding space, to improve the results and the natural language interface to the auditing and
exploration UI.