 After the model training, the postprocessing steps involved are the performance evaluation of the
model, which is conducted by tuning the learnable parameters, kernels, and weight by a loss function
through the forward propagation followed by updating these parameter values through an optimization
algorithm either by backpropagation or gradient descent. In terms of validation of species
probability distribution, the AUC (Area Under ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) Curve) is one
of the most used performance evaluation metrics. The primary application of the ROC curve is in the
threshold independent assessment that characterizes the model performance at various discrimination
thresholds. The AUC is generated by plotting the True Positive Rate (TPR) versus the False Positive
Rate (FPR) at varied thresholds. The TPR is also known as sensitivity, probability of detection, or
recall, and the FPR is also known as the probability of false alarm. Therefore, an accurate model
will generate a ROC curve away from the 1:1 line, and a less accurate model will have a ROC curve
towards the 1:1 line. The range of the AUC varies from 0 to 1. The closer the value is to 1, the
better the prediction is. The plots can be described mathematically as:  TPR or Sensitivity or
Recall or Probability of Detection =  TP TP + FN  × 100  Specificity =  TN TN + FP  × 100  FPR or
Probability of false alarm = 1 − Specificity  Here, TP stands for true positive, and FP is false
positive, where specificity is also termed the true negative rate. The TPR provides the percentage
of correctly predicted instances of species other than rhododendron, whereas specificity provides
the percentage of correctly predicted instances of rhododendron distribution.  Additionally, a
correlation matrix plot was drawn to understand the relationship between the input parameters. Total
fifteen parameters except for the biome layer, which is in the vector form, were used in the
correlation matrix. A highly linear or nonlinear relationship shows a relation/dependency or non-
relation/non-dependency between the parameters. The representation can be explained in terms of the
values varying from −1 to +1. The −ve value represents the negative relationship, and the +ve value
describes the positive relationship. The depiction of the negative relationship is in orange, where
the higher correlation value is visualized through the steeper circular shape, and vice versa for
the positive relationship. No relationship is represented by the correlation value of zero that is
represented by a perfect circular shape, and the colour becomes whitish. It can be observed that
many parameters are related to each other. A highly linear relationship exists between Sentinel-5p
based ozone and carbon monoxide as well as with ozone and water vapour with a correlation value of
0.99. It can also be observed that the linear relationship of DEM with NDVI, LST, and water vapour
is very high, which shows the variation in the local geometry and the influence of regional
ecological and climatic parameters. A lower correlation value is observed between the atmospheric
parameters and the vegetation indices, especially for EVI, LAI, and ET.  Furthermore, the spatial
distribution of Rhododendron arboreum was also analyzed.  Therefore, the postprocessing steps
involved after the model training are the performance evaluation of the model using metrics such as
the AUC (Area Under ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) Curve), analyzing the relationship
between the input parameters using a correlation matrix plot, and analyzing the spatial distribution
of Rhododendron arboreum.